1. Tool

Processing (p5.js)

2. Technique
Exploring/Remixing different interactive codes on processing
to incorporate music theory (chords and scale)

3. Description
Idea: Music (chords & scale) Interaction. We like the user interaction where we can use keys on the computer as keys on piano to make sound. And we like chords. So we explored how to use keys to play chords.
Model A:
- you can write the chord progression of the song you want to play
- the chords you played are recorded on the bottom
Model B:
- you can choose what scale (ex. C,D,E..., major/minor) you want to play
- each notes and chords you play are visually displayed

4. Image

5. Material & Instructions
Adding Sound
Line 1-3, 11-13, 91-93
adopting "synth" & can manipulate attack/release

Building Chords
Line 34-93
using if&else if statement to play note when corresponding key pressed

using different interval via number for each scale

Writing Chords History
Line 18-22
using function draw() to write

Recording Notes
Line 4-6, 25-32, 95-97
make array and expand it using .push(note)

Step1
Enable the user to play a scale on the keys and visualize it, i.e. see different shape takes on color when pressing different keys

set amplitude with built-in functions
new.p5.Envelop()
setADSR()
set up note with built-in functions
new. p5.Oscillator()
osc.freq()
osc.amp()

Visualization with built-in functions
keyIsPressed()
fill()

Step2
Enable users to play a chord when press a key
Add more osc.freq() functions

Step3
Enable users to change a scale and hear different chords
set up choice with built-in function
createSelect()

create array of scales to choose from
createScale()

Enable users to see the chord name and name of the notes played to assist their learning
create functions to show note names, evaluate chords and show chord name
midiToNoteName()
getChordName()

Passion is the best motivation: I spent hours on this project in a flow state because I really enjoy hearing the sound coming out from the keys on my keyboard
Learn to get help effectively from ChatGPT: I write a lot of codes with the help of ChatGPT. However, I realized that it is fast to write with ChatGPT only when you have some coding knowledge and can see what codes from ChatGPT are going to work and what are not. Otherwise, ChatGPT might waste even more time.
Plan instructional strategy ahead: I wanted to put some instructional design into model B. Later, I was reading a music theory book and found the scale and chord progression in model A is helpful for some exercises. However, they are not very useful in many other circumstances. It is important to plan the learning actions students will take in the end before actual development

