First Idea

At first, I thought of building little houses where the child could choose wyouhich electrical items to include, such as light, fan, and bell. 

Modules for the house

Velcro?
holes to attach the circuits
Modules for the circuit

However, after talking with Prof. Paulo, I turned to the idea of ​​cities, something so striking in my experiences as a teacher. The construction of cities with wooden blocks is something recurrent in my work with a group of 5-8-year-olds. For this, I started to think of an image that represented what I expected from this experience: something close to female culture, played with the words electricity and city, and brought elements from city-building games.

Mood Board

Images created with A.I. (canva)

What if it was a board game with cards? Where each player has their city and a goal to accomplish? This objective would be related to setting up a  circuit that would supply energy to the city in a specific way. On the board, players can acquire parts of their city, electric circuit, and tips on assembling them.

ElectricCity
Recommended age: 8-11 years old

Learning objectives:
Identify the parts of an electrical circuit (e.g., battery, wires, switch, light bulb)
Describe the flow of electricity in a simple circuit. (polarity, closed circuit)
Understand the difference between a closed loop and an open loop.
Explain how switches can be used to turn circuits on and off.
Investigate how different types of materials affect the flow of electricity in a circuit.
Build and test simple circuits using batteries, wires, and light bulbs.
Compare and contrast series and parallel circuits.
Understand the importance of safety when working with electrical circuits.

Necessary materials:
Board Game
Mission cards
Parts to build the city (e.g. buildings, roads, trees)
Parts to build the circuits (e.g. batteries, wires, switches, light bulbs)
Dice (just with the numbers 1, 2, 3)
Player markers
Players Scenario
Hourglass

Objective: Create your city and the electricity circuits on your mission cards.  Wins the player that has more points.

How to play:

Part 1 - Collecting
Each player draws an initial mission. Each mission is worth a point value if it is completed or deducts that value if it is incomplete at the end of the game.
With each move, the player rolls the dice and advances his piece on the board according to the number that came out.
The player follows the instructions on the square where his piece landed.
If the house is on a mission, the player can choose between taking a new mission, changing his mission, or passing the turn. Quest cards are always drawn.
If the house is an electric circuit part: The player can acquire the marked part if the house is a place to receive circuit parts.
 If the house is a city: The player can obtain components of the town, and the player can take a new feature. If it is an exchange square, the player can replace one of his pieces with any other available in the game.
The next player, clockwise, follows the exact instructions.
The first part ends when all the payers get to the finish line.

Part 2 - Building
Turn the 15 minutes hourglass upside down
Try to build the circuits until the time ends.
If the player needs more elements, they can change extra pieces for the ones they need.
When the time finishes, the mission is accomplished if the circuit is working. The player with the most points wins. If the player completes the mission, they gets points. If the player fails, they lose points. The quest value is indicated on the quest card.

Cards
Players
Players Scenario
Players Board Game
