Omni-animal: Sheep Baa-Baa

Iteration 1
Inspiration:
1. I wanted to make a dog because I had a dog and dog is also my favorite animal
2. I like how simple the structure is and how lively the animal feels in the above design
What worked
1. I got the shape of a head
2. This round head made me want to create a rocking chair/trundler type thing in the end
What did not work:
1. Serious scale issue, couldn't get the right size due to inch/centimeter transition
2. Nobody can tell that I am making a dog's head
Iteration 2

Inspiration:
1. I like this fat, flurry dogs with short legs more than other types of dogs. When I drew it, I realized that what I drew was more like a sheep. I like sheep because they are warm and cute, so I changed my idea from making a dog to a sheep
2. Rocking chair type of legs should work
What worked:
1. The rocking chair part worked; overall structure is stable
2. Tested other materials and looked cute
What did not work:
1. Overall too stable because the curve at the bottom is not round and circle enough
2. People said that it looks like a reindeer or a goat instead of a sheep
Final design

What worked well:
1. I adjusted the shape of the curve and the rocking chair part worked much better; quite playful and fun
2. Overall looked cute and warm; maybe a child will want this as a toy. Got inspirations from different materials (cotton, plush yarn, bell) available in the lab
The story of Baa-Baa the sheep
Baa-Baa lives in children's mind and imagination. It eats clouds and the cloud it eats will become its fur. It will never die as long as the child maintains their beautiful innocent heart. And It will not reproduce. However, Baa-Baa will disappear if the child grows into an adult who no longer has a good heart.
When a child have a rough day or a have difficulty falling asleep, Baa-Baa will come to the child's mind and play with them. It rocks and its bell rings and this brings happiness and peace. With the companion of Baa-Baa, the child will fall asleep and sleep deep and sound.
Pursuing interest vs pursuing skills: In this process, I was most nervous in the drawing part because I never know how to draw. I always thought you need to master drawing skills to be able to design. Now I see design as an activity to express yourself and creativity which is fun and interesting. Learning art/drawing skills will also be more fun and meaningful after this realization.
Stealth learning: 2D design and 3D structure building is a great way to learn Math and Physics. It connects to topics like measuring, geometry, balance. Students can learn these in a fun way without realizing that they are learning.
Inter-discipline, connection and meaning: Students can learn math, physics, biology and art altogether in this exercise. These connections emerge and create meaning and context for different knowledge. For example, I come to appreciate the beauty of math and physics. They help us solve real world issues in a neat and elegant way.  To make a rocking chair, make the bottom the shape of a smooth curve as part of a circle is a very good solution.
Learning by doing: Learned design thinking, iterative/agile design, project management, time management naturally in the process. Time flies so fast and again I don't even realize that I am learning
Build self efficacy: I made 3 prototypes before the final decision. When the prototype finally worked, I felt really happy and had the confidence in myself: I can solve problems. Coping with failure and the rewards of figuring everything out can help build children's self efficacy and a positive attitude
Social learning: Asked classmates and TA to give feedback to my design along the way. Get really useful feedback from them as inspirations for next iteration

