Magical Game Box

Final Dream Toy 1 -  Brain Teaser section
3D Tangrams with  attachable board

This is an attachable tangram that is created by the 3D printer. By attaching the tangrams to the background board, Sam could create the targeting models based on her imagination, and all the pieces are reusable.


Final Dream Toy 2 - Brain teaser(2)
Number Klotski

The Klotski puzzle is a challenge that can keep her entertained at 9 years old and even as an adult, because it is slightly different to solve each time. The puzzle is convertible from 3x3 to 4x4 as per her request, so she can adjust to the level of challenge she feels is appropriate. This provides a hands on method for pattern recognition and 

Final Dream Toy 3 -  Snitch
(from Harry Potter)

Using fabric, yarn, and popsicle sticks, we created a homemade snitch that Sam could use to determine which section of the game box she would be engaging with by throwing and letting it land on different parts of the box.

Final Dream Toy 4- Art Section 
Pom poms & Clay for sculpture

From the interview, it became apparent that Sam was passionate about art and interested in creating art. In combination with her love of animals, we ordered those two materials that would allow her to use them and create either sculpture in animal shapes or "stuffed animals" using the pom poms kit that she could recreate over using 2 different types of sensory experiences (pom and clay). When she needs boundaries, she can follow the examples given. And, when she's feeling more creative, she can use her imagination to dream up and create new creatures.

Final Dream Toy 5 -  History Section
Designed Historical Card Game

As Sam expresses her interests
in history, especially her unspoken interest in female figures. The Historical cards each have women who have impacted NYC, the US, or the world in some way through their work. We selected women who also are more closely aligned to critical pedagogy, as many of them took activist, dissenting, intellectual, and creative roles in society. The cards provide fun facts and a quick bio, to be used as a guessing game. However, these are also incredibly powerful, intelligent women who have backstories and works that she can always be learning from if she chooses to look deeper into them. Each of this women walks through the world in a way we can learn from and be inspired to walk our unique paths, create our own bodies of work, and work towards liberation.

For more takeaways, please visit our main document: 

During the design process, I held the design principles in my mind and was thinking about the discussion and topic we had during class. However, it was after the class that I noticed that these three design principles stood out before, during and after the design process for our dream toys.

Give people what they want – not what they ask for
Initially, we really want to include some mechanical aspects in our designed toys. For example, we thought about creating a stuffed animal that could read stories to her; or a teddy bear(as Sam mentioned, that was her favorite toy) that could also serve as a night lamp, which could be connected with sensors. But after the interviews and we dived deeper into the notes we have taken, it has occurred to us that though Sam said she likes stuffed toys and Teddy bears, what she really wants and enjoys is to be challenged within a range - that is, she would be able to figure out by herself after putting some effort.
Another important part is that during the interview, she stated that she would like to play with this toy independently in her room on weekends. However, after some interactions and conversations with her, we realized she really enjoyed her time spent with her older sister and would really hope to have more time playing together with her, but her sister is often away on weekends. Therefore, we implicitly make half our designed sections affordable for multiple players, such as the Tangrams, and the social-historical cards, as if she wants, she could play them with her older sister while she is at home.

Invent things that you would want to use yourself
After a detailed analysis of our interview content with Sam, we started a "Brain teaser" section in our box to echo her wish to have something challenging but re-playable that she could engage with multiple times. So we used the 3d printer and laser cutter to create the 3d tangrams and the number Klotski. When we had the final prototype, we literally observed that with it and could not stop interacting with it. So were our testers. They were so in love with them! It was at that specific moment that we realized how powerful this design principle could be!

Support many paths, many styles
Another aspect we took into consideration when designing this dream toy was the comment Sam made during our interview. She mentioned she enjoyed art because "it allowed her to be creative but within boundaries". Thus, we tried to make our toys aligned with this goal, that all the toys could be played with and used in more than two ways at least. Of course, there are instructions and guidance on how to play with these toys. But we also intentionally created all the toys playable based on Sam's imagination.

