The experience of grabbing a microwave from the street's trash, dissecting it, and repurposing the fan was counter-cultural in different ways. First, I felt empowered opening a technological artifact and using various tools traditionally attributed to man. I was used to thinking about repairing technology as a man's task: the person that always fixed artifacts in my home was a man. Second, repairing instead of using new materials was a way to care for the environment and our technologies. Jackson (2014)  invites us to build a strong relationship with objects and take care of them and proposes an ethics of mutual care and responsibility, called repair-centered ethics paradigm.

The story of a useless microwave found in the street's trash

DISASSEMBLING PHASE: COMPONENTS

Quick notes in the lab of akio's explanation

TOOLS

CORE PART
Mostly metal, and plastic

Beeper
Motor
Magnetron
Fuse
Capacitor
Transformer

Fan and Structure attaching  it

external structure

Base and wall: metal
Door: Plastic

Walls with ventilation

Base with ventilation

Door

Buttons

attaching parts
Mostly metal, and plastic

Spring 

Screws
Metal attachments
Gears

Video of the process

repurpose and design phase

Once I disassembled the different parts, I observed each element and found the fan an interesting element to start playing and trying things. It reminded me the video at Heliopolis work, where students made a ship with a helix repurposing objects.

First Idea

Attach the fan to a car, an helicopter, a ship, or a character to make it 'fly'

I discarded the idea because it doesn't seem original, but kept it in mind if things would turn out difficult.

Second Idea

Try out the fan, as I forgot to plug in the microwave to test if it was working.

It worked !!!

I decided to put a switch to pick if I wanted to turn it on or off. I peeled cables and isolated cables.

Third idea

I went to a bookstore and saw Newton's Lab: Wind energy game. The helix remind me my fan. I decided to try if my fan could produce energy by blowing.

Unfortunately, it didn't work out well.

I blew and used a hairdryer to make the fan turn faster, but it wasn't producing energy. Megan helped me to use a multimeter to measure the voltage.

Fourth idea

Stick metallic and colorful stars in the helix to see a nice effect. Additionally, hang some small balls that make sound with movement.

I  stuck the stars and the balls with sound, but it didn't make any cool effect. Nevertheless, the stars looked nice and kept them.

Final PRODUCT

electric Fan with switch and decorations to refresh ourselves during summer and put in a desk or nightstand.

I attached the fan to a recycled piece of wood, as I was looking for a non-conductive material. I used the glue gun.
I added a wood support to put the fan in a table.
I added some threads, because i had some holes i did trying to attach small balls that make sound with the wind that didn't work out well.





