Omni-Animal: Lucky Elephant

FIRST IDEA: BUILD A GIRAFFE

I started drawing a giraffe in Inkscape. Then, I realized that there was already a giraffe
built in TLTL and it would be difficult for me to create something different.
I thought my creativity would work better building a different animal and trying to be original.

SECOND IDEA: BUILD AN ELEPHANT

I found on the internet an elephant with a nice mandala and decided it would be interesting
to engrave the mandala.

Then, I started drawing the parts and the design had 9 parts.
I felt overwhelmed.

As a beginner using design tools on the computer and little experience with the laser cutting machine, I decided to start from a simple design and see how it worked. I started using Illustrator, because I worked during the week-end at Barnard Design Center and they told me they only could help me if I used this tool.

first iteration: I looked at my prototype and observed it was too simple. I decided to add a third layer in the middle to better build a 3D object.

Second iteration: The design was still too simple. I wanted to play with the ears of the elephant and missed my first design with 9 pieces. I didn't like the idea to connect the body with pieces that didn't make sense in an elephant. I decided to use the ears, foot and tail to connect the body of the elephant. I tested it in the laser cutting machine with cardboard. I also scored the mandala, because the engraving was too soft and invisible.
Third iteration: It was time to print in MDF and try a thicker material. I added design to the ears, erased the ears that were drawn in the body and draw the continuing part of the body instead. I changed some details to improve the way the elephant is connected.  I forgot to mirror the body of the elephant, so I printed it again. One feet broke during the engraving, so I printed it again.  

Final product: I polished the edges to make them soft and rounded. I added a red brilliant piece, but didn't want to put too much decorations because the engraving was already beautiful for me. Sometimes, simple is better. Lucky elephant lives in India, specifically in Jaipur. His habitat is the forest and spends the day eating  roots, grass and fruits, and taking care of his children. Lucky receives special care from inhabitants of the area and public agents that treat him in case he is sick. In Buddhism, it represents fortune, protection, strength and family, but it also embodies abundance and 

Reflection Card: Designing an object require thinking from a different perspective than what I was used to. It wasn't easy to imagine the pieces and the shape they needed to get assembled. I started using Illustrator and getting familiar with it. I got more experience using the laser cutting machine. Additionally, I developed my creativity.



