Omni - Animal: Quackie
I hope you enjoy Quackie! He is a young duck living in his own pond hoping to find his mate. He munches on the little fishes that tickle his feet and dives under water each time he sees that bald head flying above him. Quackie is content and enjoying the quiet winter for now, but soon will be eager for his prime time in the summer!

Ideation:

I love ducks! I collect rubber duckies and my family calls me ducky, so I knew I wanted to make a duck.
I googled a few laser cut duck ideas
I began by sketching out my ideas of what pieces I would need to make this duck
I then brought a rubber duck image into Illustrator and used the pen tool to cut out each piece

Prototype:
I cut out my images in Illustrator and decided to make the little "hooks" to hold the wings
I then cut everything onto cardboard to test it out
Successful score attempt
Failed latch attempt

Once I knew my simple design would work, I then began to play around with how I could make the duck's tail wiggle...this was very challenging! I first attempted a "latch" system like the dragon, but that was not working so I resorted to scoring the back end of the duck so it would move.

Test:
Once I confirmed that all of my pieces would fit, I then painted the wood and began to cut my pieces. In order to get the detail on both sides of the duck I had to reflect the body and the wings and then engrave on both sides. The idea is that he is a snorkeling duck!

This project took a lot of reiterations and perseverance. I quickly was able to construct the basic body and structure for the duck. However, making measurements exact so that things could slide into place as well as attempting to add an element of difficulty by making the duck wiggle really made me go through many iterations before everything worked. I enjoy this type of project because there is always something to challenge yourself with. It involved working slowly and paying close attention to each details otherwise I made simple mistake. For example, when making the second wing I just rotated it 180 degrees at first, but then realized wait...I need this to be a reflection...
