FIRST IDEA
Materials:
Crocs: Primarily composed of PEVA and fabric
Jeans: Jeans, button, ziper, thread

This was my daughter crocs that is too tight. I planned to do a pencil case as you can see on the sketch. Although, it didn't end looking like i planned. However, i chose to share my  frustration because i understand is part of the process.

Process:
I cut the crocs in half, painted and added hairspray to fix it. Then I added the ziper to make it possible to open the pencil case.
I sewed some thread into the jeans to create a texture. Then, I sewed the jeans into the crocs. Finally I added a part of the crocs as a handle.

Reflection: 
It didn't end looking how I had imagined. I think the ziper on the mouth looked creepy. So I decided to give up on my first idea and try tinkering with the other pair of crocs.

SECOND IDEA

Materials:
	•	Crocs: Primarily composed of polyethylene vinyl acetate (PEVA) and fabric
	•	Part of a Lamp (I found it in my building garbage like this): Metal inside and plastic outside
	•	Crochet thread

Sketch:
As the crocs is made of plastic and water proof, I thought about bringing life to something that was already junk. However, the thread is not water proof, and that is why the part of the lamp served perfectly for the purpose.

Process:
I cut the crocs in half, but in the opposite direction that the first one.
I made holes all around so I could pass the thread.
 I started to sew with a finer thread so as not to enlarge the holes too much.
 With a thicker thread I started to crochet.
As the crochet grew, I placed the lamp part to give structure and isolate the line from the wet part of the bean plantation.
When I finished sewing, I planted the bean in cotton and another one on land to see which one would grow.
I didn't like the color of the crocs base so I decided to paint it green.
In the following days I continued watering the beans and waiting for them to grow.

Reflection:
I am more satisfied with this second idea because I managed to make good use of each of the materials. I also used crochet, which I love to do, putting my personality into the work. Finally, it was an opportunity to transform and reframe something I no longer used in my home.

In today's fast-paced world, we often discard objects that are broken or no longer useful, without giving much thought to repairing or repurposing them. This mindset contributes to a culture of waste and disregard for the value of resources. As Jackson (2014) argues, breaking should be seen as an opportunity for something new to be created. With this in mind, I decided to take on the challenge of transforming a pair of worn-out crocs into something that could bring new life to our world. My idea was to create a vase, a vessel that could hold and nurture new growth. This project served me as a reminder of the power and importance of repurposing and reusing what we might otherwise discard.

