Interview protocol: 
Interview protocol: 
We asked about favorite toys, hobbies, subjects in school, things he’s interested in, favorite colors, activities, dream toy
Grade - subjects in school -
Ask to draw and describe his dream toy
What functions he wants, features, movement, colors, size, materials
How do you think you will play with it? Who do you want to play it with?

Co-Design Interview Notes:
Shima Von Joo: Age 10, 5th grade
He showed the toy he currently likes to play with: a spider made of pipe cleaners
Favorite animal: Dogs – Boxer or pitbull
Favorite subject in school:  Social studies and technology
Favorite toys are: Remote control drones, cars, boats
He has played with remote controlled cars that are on a magnetic track and goes in a loop. He likes it, but doesn’t want the track, he wants a drone that flies and has no limits
Favorite colors: Red or blue
He wants to take it outside to fly in the park. He wants something small and lightweight with a camera on it that also rotates
He also wants a screen on the remote that shows what the camera can see
Favorite hobbies: he likes to draw animals with tools, prehistoric tools, spears
He also likes games with obstacle courses
Archery and target games
If the drone could be any shape with no limitations, he would want a hexagon with a cage underneath.  He prefers his drone to be the shape he drew for us.  It has 2 sets of propellers, it is red and blue with a Harry Potter symbol on it. The symbol: wand green, stone black, cape yellow
He also wants lights on it, red and white lights – not blinking, they should be still lights

Initial design ideas:
What design decisions did you make about the toy/toolkit, and why?
- He drew the design that he wanted and specified that it should be small and lightweight so that it could fly and he could carry it with him to the park.

- We are also exploring possibilities that are not a drone, but have the elements that he's interested in such as camera, have the ability to fly, related to animals and creatures etc.

Dream Toy:
A remote controlled drone with a camera - and a screen on the remote. It should be blue and red with white lights. There will be a Harry Potter logo on the front, and it should have two sets of 

