Original code: Follow
 (with pseudocode)

Biggest learnings from the pseudocode exercise
1. mouseX, mouseY and translate () can enable users to draw with their mouse
2. draw() is the key to create interactive graphics and animation
3. push() and pop() help store and manipulate data in a very specific and organized way.

New design idea 1:
I wanted to make a snake game/"fish eat fish" type of experience and realized that it would be too difficult

After playing around the code, I realized that frameRate() is a intersting function so I kept it

New design idea 2:
I got interested in this movement and wanted a drawing effect to show the trail/track of the movement

I did not know how to search for the effect I wanted at first. Luckily, I found this resource in p5.js's teaching section and realized that what I was looking is called "draw with mouse". It scaffolds everything clearly and I got it correct the first time I tried.

New design:  Art tool (and a math learning tool)

Changes made based on the original code
1. Moved background () from draw() to setup(). In this way, we are able to keep the trail of the movement
2. Changed the color and weight of the stoke to make it work more like a drawing pen
3. Added a slider to control the frame rate and a clear button to reset the canvas

A user can adjust the frame rate with the slider.
When the rate is higher, the lines are denser from before and present a different artistic feeling

I tried changing the color and length of the strokes in the code. Given more time, I will build them as buttons or sliders for users to play with

1.Building connection with other knowledge: coding is a great way to learn math and also concepts of physics. And the learning happens without deliberate teaching
2.Cultural difference: coming from a humanity background, coding speaks a very different language than what I am used to. Learning code is like learning another language that is rooted in computational thinking. Assimilating another thinking system is hard
3. Meaning making: I understanding codings based on my previous knowledge. I found draw() hard to understand at first. However, when I discovered what framerate() can does to draw(), I was reminded of animations and everything started to make sense. 
4. Construction vs direct instruction: As an adult, after getting the power and beauty of coding, I think deliberate teaching or direct instruction will be a more efficient way for me to learn. However, constructionist way of learning coding gave me an understanding of what codes can do and build self-efficacy. I now know how to debug and solve problems on my own.
