The object I have disassembled is Dreamcast, a home video game console. However, though I know what it is, how to use it, and its basic function, I have never used it myself. Thus, when I disassemble it myself, I do not have a complete idea of its functionality, its pros and cons. All the parts supporting this machine's operation are just different components to me. It is like when you are looking at a stranger, you can see that they have eyes, noses, and mouths, but you cannot describe their personality and virtues. If I know more about the machine, I may have a better sense of how to appreciate it. As a result, it will be easier to make implicit connections between each part's purpose and its existence's value.

In reading Rethinking Repair, I found a passage particularly powerful - “Repair is about space and function—the extension or safeguarding of capabilities in danger of decay. But it is also an inescapably timely phenomenon, bridging past and future in distinctive and sometimes surprising ways. Repair inherits an old and layered world, making history but not in the circumstances of its choosing. It accounts for the durability of the old, but also the appearance of the new”

Before disassembling it, I wish I had learned more about the time when the machine existed, its history, the culture around it, the meaning it carried, and the value people expected from its use back then. Like learning new information without a sufficient scaffolding process, integrating the knowledge with my experience and understanding without any prior knowledge is challenging. In other words, it is hard for me to create my own feelings and understanding of the object, and I cannot engage in a dialogue with the space and time where the object originates. If I could have had more depth of feeling and awareness of the object before disassembling it, it might have evoked more of my emotions and thinking. I can then generate more ideas and inspiration when I use the disassembled parts to design new objects.

However, I have gained a lot from this disassembly process. It was an enjoyable experience, and I'm proud I didn't destroy or force any part of it during the disassembly. During "decomposing" and "disassembling", I was amazed at how intricately each piece interacted with the other. Each tiny part captivated me intellectually and aesthetically due to its design, color, and quality.

Dreamcast
The object I disassembled is called Dreamcast, it is a  home video game console released by Sega in 1998.

Dissecting Process

Dissected components

Re-design Preparation 

Idyllic Little House & electric fan



