I chose to take apart a portable charger. I began the process by observing the outside of the charger and drawing what I saw. Then, I drew what I believed could be inside. The outside had an aluminum tube protecting it and the only other visible parts were the charger ports (one USB, one Micro USB). There also was plastic on top and the bottom. I knew there would be a circuit board, battery, and wires connecting them inside. When I began taking the portable charger apart, I had trouble taking the outer plastic casing off. I used a variety of tools and eventually decided I would need to break some of the plastic. I also accidentally broke the USB charger, and so I learned very quickly if you want to reuse parts, you must be careful when you are taking apart the materials to ensure nothing gets damaged. I ended up using pliers to break the top of the charger off and reveal what was inside. Once the top was off, it was easy to slide the rest of the aluminum casing off. A majority of pieces are plastic besides the aluminum casing. There also was a screw. The actual portable charger was made of a circuit board, connected by 2 wires to a battery, as anticipated. The circuit board had a copper wire wrapped around a spool on top, assumably for conducting energy. The aluminum and plastic parts are more decorative and protective, whereas the circuit board and battery are structural. The screws and wires, including the copper, are more connecting parts. Once everything was disconnected, I began planning for reconstructing. I recently have moved a lot and don't have a lot of materials, and struggled to think of how to repurpose this with what was available. My failure to construct a new object made me realize the importance of having a plan with the materials you are going to use. I did not have a plan in mind for how to use the portable charger, and because of my lack of experience, I was not sure how to connect the pieces I had to other objects available. So, I simplified my goal and used the aluminum aspect, the plastic cap on the bottom, and tape to reattach the pieces. Then, I thought it could be repurposed as a dog toy (putting treat inside for my dog to get out). But, I decided this was not likely a good material for her so I did not actually end up using it. In the future, I will take apart electronics with more of a plan in place of how to use, and will focus on developing my understanding of how to use these pieces.
This process helped me reflect on the ways we must have a plan to critically use technology. As Jackson (2014) illustrated, technology is often made (like the MacBook Pro example) in ways that make it extremely difficult to repair and not necessarily environmentally friendly. Creating and repurposing technology in sustainable ways requires the maker to critically engage with the materials around them in ways that prevent additional waste. This process also made me reflect on the importance of patience. When I couldn't get the top off, I began breaking it and broke one of the USB ports. If I had been more patient and considered all possibilities for opening it first, I pay have been able to salvage another piece. I wasn't sure if my final product would be healthy for use, so I decided against using it. Overall, it made me realize how important planning out uses with respect to the parts and materials available are. I ended up creating something that is not useful, and so it does not constitute a worthwhile repair or sufficiently salvaging the materials. Repair is a big part of my family traditions as my father and grandfather both are mechanics, and so I was raised in a tradition of repairing whatever we could, and although I have more experience with repairing non-electronics I am looking forward to gaining practice in this realm.

