Early Process
Eury and I began the process by exploring  materials that could  transport water. We  needed something that would carry the water without absorbing it, so wood wouldn't work without another material on top. We found this tube and began researching simple machines (specifically levers and pulleys) as a way to move the tube. We found a motor that we could make into a pulley, we just needed to find something heavy enough (hockey puck) to actually move the tube. The initial phase of exploration helped us explore our options and begin creating a design we could carry out. We were inspired by the idea of fish swimming in a river.

Prototyping & Moments of Learning
We attached the hockey puck to the pulley using a strong plastic typed material and used a spring to distribute the weight so our motor could turn the hockey puck pulley enough. Then, we began creating a base that would keep the motor elevated and all the aspects in place. Eury found a great wood piece that could hold our tube once we found a way to attach the wood the table (it was magnetic but it wouldn't stay on any white boards). Our only issue then was to ensure the tube would stay on same part of the wood each time, tipping in the same location so it would hit the sensor reliably. We laser cut some circles that were slightly bigger than our tube and glued 2 together after realizing only 1 allowed the tube to move too much, and attaching 3 gave too little flexibility.

Final Design/Takeaway
Once the tube was secured, the final experimentation around the number of objects, weight of the objects, and water content to put inside the tube needed to be determined. When the "cotton balls" were too wet, they were too heavy and did not slide. When there was only 1-2 "cotton balls", they did not always build up the momentum to move. When we used a combination of a few fish, a few blue stones, and more "cotton balls" that were moderately wet, we found the most success. There ultimately is a "sweet spot" that created enough force to overcome the friction. Likewise, there is an optimal weight of objects in the tube that do not offset the balance but create enough movement to ensure the humidity change happens.

Reflection Card: Working with a partner was really helpful for this project because we were able to brainstorm and problem solve together, incorporating two different perspectives into the design. I felt supported throughout the process because we were learning collectively. This process taught me about force, weight, gravity, and friction in a hands on way that did not require the use of equations specifically, but rather shaped our understanding of the math behind it through these concrete objects. The combination of coding and 3d movement, similarly as with the laser cutting assignment, demonstrated switching between 2d and 3d seamlessly. I'm looking forward to seeing all of the machines connect on Wednesday!