Original Project Animation

Original Project Link: https://editor.p5js.org/jooprojects/full/Y6T0202my

Original Code: https://editor.p5js.org/jooprojects/sketches/Y6T0202my

Reflection Card: When remixing, it is difficult to think outside the constraints of what is already built. In this, I found it was very similar to the first lab project we did. It also took a lot longer than I expected to come up with a remix idea and then implement it. Because you aren't starting from scratch, you have to figure out how what you want to add fits into existing pieces.
Because of this, I wasn't able to add the sound component that I wanted, because I couldn't add the sound library, and didn't leave myself enough time to explore other options to add the sound library. It is definitely something I will continue to think about outside of this project. My last creative tech class was sound-based, so I am super interested in how I could integrate past creations.
Personally, the colors of the initial design didn't resonate with how I feel about love. As I played around with options, I realized that the beginning, when separate, is duller. When you click to 'us together', the moving shapes themselves change color, against a starker background. It feels representative-- love is not a fundamental shift of self, but it makes the little details brighter, more fun.

When remixing, it is difficult to think outside the constraints of what is already built. In this, I found it was very similar to the first lab project we did. It also took a lot longer than I expected to come up with a remix idea and then implement it. Because you aren't starting from scratch, you have to figure out how what you want to add fits into existing pieces.
Because of this, I wasn't able to add the sound component that I wanted, because I couldn't add the sound library, and didn't leave myself enough time to explore other options to add the sound library. It is definitely something I will continue to think about outside of this project. My last creative tech class was sound-based, so I am super interested in how I could integrate past creations.
Personally, the colors of the initial design didn't resonate with how I feel about love. As I played around with options, I realized that the beginning, when separate, is duller. When you click to 'us together', the moving shapes themselves change color, against a starker background. It feels representative-- love is not a fundamental shift of self, but it makes the little details brighter, more fun.

It is very visible in commented out code where the creator experimented on their own work and gave me inspiration to pursue my own remixing

Pseudocode:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Kwy9dI7jchvXM-6i0zSzKDrNF05c9FHQtFuoJbqRCfI/edit?usp=sharing

Here is where I learned about user interaction through mouseIsPressed boolean

In redesign, I realized that the frameCount means that the ellipses are moving further apart, which makes the flowers appear bigger, but kind of ruins my heart shape in redesign

I don't understand how the effect of frameCount affects the shape of the flowers, both in placement and creation

Changes to Code:
1. colors
2. mouse interaction
3. quantities
4. shapes
5. axis of rotation

changed flower shape
changed mousePressed action to create heart shapes
mouse interaction changed colors of flower rather than background
added change in text/background if key is pressed

Remixed Code: https://docs.google.com/document/d/12gZXxDayhjoh-_lNYIypHPi47-2Sr8pRgyc4JMnNqEA/edit?usp=sharing

