Idea #1:
Utilizing Virtual Reality to enhance Social-Emotional Learning

- VR allows students to engage in scenarios they may not experience otherwise to help instill empathy

- This is intellectually engaging with a practical significance that can help students generate new ideas and create knowledge about the world

- The power of stories - and being able to bring awareness to develop a more inclusive world

Idea #2:
Design Thinking Process to enhance student engagement and knowledge

- The ongoing, iterative process of empathize-define-ideate-prototype-test allows students to engage in real world topics while they problem solve and gain skills beyond just the topic

- About the process not the product

- Through the process, enable students to think beyond themselves (to be empathetic) and learn how to problem solve, think critically, and be creative.

Why do we need to teach SEL/empathy?

1. Society is still segregated and exclusive, especially for individuals of certain races, genders, sexual orientation, socio-economic status, etc. The problem is that people lack empathy and are unaccepting of others' personal experiences and are quick to make hurtful conclusions about experiences they do not know.  In the end, kids don’t know what they don’t know - they need to be educated through tangible, immersive learning experiences to help understand other perspectives.

2. Empathy involves understanding and caring about others' perspectives and experiences. By developing empathy, students can become more aware of the ways in which different individuals and groups are impacted by systemic oppression and inequality. This understanding can help students to recognize and challenge the societal structures that perpetuate these injustices.
Therefore, teaching empathy to students is an important component of developing critical consciousness.

3. Students with better SEL skills have stronger academics as earning involves emotions - which can affect an individuals decision making, interactions with their community, and overall engagement

4. Teaching our children today how to be kind and empathetic will help make our world down the road more inclusive

Positive social interactions: Empathy helps students to understand and appreciate others' perspectives and feelings, which can improve their social interactions and relationships. This can create a more positive and inclusive classroom environment.

Reduced bullying: Empathy can also help to reduce bullying behavior by promoting kindness and respect towards others.

Improved communication skills: Empathy helps students to better understand others' needs and feelings, which can improve their communication skills.

Enhanced problem-solving skills: When students understand and appreciate others' perspectives, they are better able to work collaboratively and solve problems effectively.

Increased academic achievement: Research has shown that students who have strong social and emotional skills, including empathy, tend to perform better academically.

“We tend to think of empathy as something you either have or don’t have,” said Zaki, an assistant professor of psychology and a co-author of the paper. “But lots of studies have demonstrated that empathy isn’t just a trait. It’s something you can work on and turn up or down in different situations.”

How do we currently teach SEL/empathy?

1. Common core standards...health classes...advisory...(tends to be mostly teacher centered direction or discussion based)

2. It is challenging to place students in the shoes of others if they have never interacted with people of a diverse background

3. Theoretical! How can we really get students to understand other perspectives?

4. Direct instruction - just telling students about SEL and discussing, but not given the chance to really experience

Why is SEL lacking in schools?

1. Limited resources - schools may not have the resources or funding to provide comprehensive SEL programming, including training for teachers and staff, curriculum development, and implementation.

2. Emphasis on academic achievement - more focused on academic achievement and prioritizing standardized testing (SEL is not used to evaluate schools, but student performance is...)

3. Lack of awareness - not be aware of the importance of SEL or may not have the training and resources needed to effectively incorporate it into their teaching.

4. Resistance to change - implementing SEL may require changes to the school culture and practices, which can be challenging for some educators and administrators and time consuming

Microworld - Virtual Reality and digital database

Target Audience:

Middle School students and teachers!

Virtual Reality

- Virtual reality software that allows middle school children to immerse themselves in diverse experiences to unlock their empathetic potential. Through  authentic simulations and various hands-on challenges, students will improve their social and emotional intelligence to activate a positive change in society.

- Students will place on a VR headset and immediately immerse themselves in a 3-5 minute experience that enables the child to participate in a realistic scenario covering topics such as  racial bias, consent, or bullying.  This will allow students to “walk in someone else's shoes” and engage with firsthand lived perspectives that are different from their own.

- Goal = to expose today’s youth to a variety of experiences and perspectives by allowing them to explore differences in VR

Dashboard

- Along with experiencing and engaging with VR simulations, teachers and students will have access to a digital platform that will provide discussion and reflection prompts related to the topic they participated in to will help students and teachers engage in challenging discussions with guidance.

- Not every child in the classroom can engage with the VR headsets at once, so the digital platform will provide other social emotional learning lesson plans including hands-on group community building activities, individual game like lessons, and thoughtful reflections.

- Although they will utilize a digital platform, many of the SEL activities will also will be hands on, group activities such as the empathy card game

Idea #3:
Interdisciplinary and Project Based Learning environments

- Students being able to engage in wider real world projects that can apply cross-curricularly allows them new ways of thinking and applying knowledge as well as allows them to make personal connections

-This way of learning helps change the context in which students think




