Reflection Card:

01/18/2023 at 2 PM, NY-USA, it was my first time disassembling an electronic object. Choosing the object, taking out its pieces one by one, and discovering its internal parts amazed me by taking me to the fulfilling sensation of encountering something new.
I have already fixed personal things before, such as clothes, a piece of jewelry, and a shoe. But I never repaired something; when necessary, I took it to a specialist, mainly if it was an electronic item. In my learning process, I could not identify how the parts worked to make it functional, for example, how the web camera I disassembled makes it possible to record a person and instantaneously reproduce on a computer. I focused on the shapes and the formats because I had the assignment to build a new thing that I had already designed in my mind. I wanted to look well-designed and that a kid could play, so this drove my attention during the exploration process. If I were doing it from scratch, probably, I would draw a model that could be replicated because I would have searched for shapes or machines that could execute what I wanted. The effort would have been different, but not so inventive. Another thing was my procedure of discovering how to make the toy stand up. Whenever I had a new idea, I had to test and understand the toy balance point. I spent a lot of time on this part, experimenting with materials and trying to find a solution. This took my final object far away from what I had mock-up. In my family, we have a culture to avoid breaking - I wrote more about this in my gear essay. If it were broken, we would never disassemble it. We could donate or find someone to fix it. Nowadays, I have been watching my stepson create toys with things from our daily basis that would go to the trash, which is a practice that his father tought him. The main reason for this activity is not to spend money on a new toy, that it will go to a pile months later, and have fun with the construction process. Repairing or considering reusing an object that potentially would go to the trash can help us to raise the consciousness of the material that we consume, why we consume it, who produces it, and where it goes. Is that an end for an objected already born?

Disassembling a scanner in group

Robot@ Mock-up

Disassembling a web cam by myself

Final Version
