Interview Overview 

We visited Ziyan at her home. She is a 9-year-old Chinese girl, attending a public school here at NY now. It was the first time we met her. She forced her mother out of the room and closed the door when we did the interview. However, she let her younger brother in the room with us. The whole interview was in Chinese.

We asked about her favorite toys, subjects and teachers. She showed us around her room, her drawing book, her animation homework and other artifacts she made and their favorite video games. She also played the piano and sang a song for us.

Her favorites
Ziyan's favorite toys are dolls. She loves everything related to Melody.

Ziyan loves art, drawing and design. Her favorite class is "arts and crafts" and wishes to become a painter or an artisan in the future

Her drawing book where she draws, designs and writes stories

She also kept two very small paper phones which were gifts from her classmates.

She also directed and filmed several short animated videos with her brother. She has high technology fluency

She and her brother like these two games. One is a running game. Another is a garden building + eliminating game.

Design ideas

Ziyan likes everything related to the doll Melody.

For the Dream Toy, she wants a Melody doll made in plastic. She has drawn it before and showed her design to me.

She used to have a Melody doll but had to leave it in China. She misses it and wants to play with it again.

She wishes the Melody will be the size of a hand. Her ears can move and the bow can shine. She wishes that Melody will be in color white and pink. She also wants to hear Melody speak "Hi, I am Melody".

We feel that Ziyan is very aware that she is a girl. She likes pink, cute things and doesn't like the "boy stuff" her brother has, such as Lego, stones, gun toy, etc.

We think what she wanted now probably will not be very educational. We plan to invite her to the lab next week and show her what the lab can do. The lab visit may inspire her in other ways.

In the meantime, we may think more about what skills we might want to help her develop.

Ziyan has high math grades and finds math easy in the US. However, math is her least favorite subject
She said "数学很麻烦 (Math is troublesome)" twice

She acknowledged that math is also in making art after I asked her. She clarified by saying that "我讨厌数学里的数学，但不是美术里的数学 (I hate math in math but not math in art)".

She also has limited interest in Lego, coding and playing the piano. But she likes to singing and express herself that way

We also feel that Ziyan's computational/systematic thinking and strategy making skill can be improved. When playing the "happy eliminating" video game, she is not able to observe, think, reflect and find the right strategy to win despite failing the same game multiple times.



