I transform an old flip phone into a small art piece that captures my different feelings of being online and offline. The reason I chose this theme is because I want to create a contrast between the original usage we gave it and the possibility of its "second life".

For me, I feel that most online information is second-hand. Everybody speaks from their own contexts and the discussion often lacks full context, as if the conversation takes place inside small boxes, flat, boundary-clear and isolated. In contrast, when I am offline, the experiences go through my own senses and understanding, therefore more personal, integrated and concrete.

 I embody the online-offline contrast by creating a tape collage to represent the offline experience, highlighting the colorful yet noisy online conversations, while I used soft and solid cotton dyed in red, green, blue and yellow, together with small objects on top that help simulate a dreamlike micro-environment to represent the intimacies of offline experience.

Reflection:
Reading Jackson's essay makes me rethink the realtionship between objects and meaning, especially in a world that is so intellectually oriented. In my own practice of dissecting and repurposing an old object, an old flip-phone, I really try to think about its original use and meaning  for people, then how I can develop new, or even opposite meaning in it. I enjoy conceiving  my solutions according to the materials at hand and constantly adjusting my expectation during the process. This uncertainty of the end-result is what's so exciting about this creation. I didn't encounter big difficulties in the process, but I think I should learn to work more neatly and be more organized next time.

old flip phone

material
1.Old flip-phone
2.Ctton
3.Color tapes
4.Decoration (Moss, petal, Stones, etc.)

dissected artifact
1.Keyboard
2.Display Screen
3.Microchips
4.Camera
5.Signal converter
6.Skeleton

process
Step 1: Disassemble the phone
Step 2: Assemble the cell phone case
Step 3: Add tapes, decorations, and paintings

Something fun

