Curved pillar & Deer with Bandsaw

Material: Basswood or any other softwood for carving
Tip:
1. Make sure your bandsaw blade is sharp!
 2. It is challenging for the Bandsaw to turn and cut out a curve trajectory. Thus, instead of trying to cut out curves on the wood using the Bandsaw, it may be more helpful first to cut out zigzags on the targeting side of the wood and then connect them within a straight line by using the bandsaw.
 3. Don't fight the saw! When the saw gets stuck, do not force it to move forward or backward, rather, wait for two or three seconds before continuing to going forward.

Instructions:
1. Design the front and side view of your sculpture, have a clear picture of the final design, and identify which parts need to be cut off and remain before cutting. It is helpful to pre-order the cutting sequence to cut small, and middle pieces first and large, outer parts later which would allow the sculpture to remain intact throughout the process.
2. After cutting the side view, use tape to hold the outer pieces together and flip to cut the front view.

Since we are cutting curves, we constantly had to bend the saw blade a bit, or push back and forth. This led to the saw blade falling off of the machine several times. In the end, we learnt to fix the machine on the go, and was even able to change a saw blade in the end. (BTW the earlier issues are totally caused by the blade being so dull and hard to work with)

Oops...
We broke the saw!!!

Cutting tips!

Tips for a smooth sawing experience!
1. Be prepared to replace a new saw/blade!
2. When replacing a new saw, make sure to turn off the machine before opening it up.
3. Adjust the level of the saw based on the material you are cutting.
4. Adjust the tightness of the saw based on your needs.

Powerful Idea we explored: using straight cuts to create curved surfaces. How are lines that we put on the front and side surfaces transforming into surfaces/planes with the action of cutting? What are some math and geometrical concepts behind the curved pillar? why does it fit perfectly?

The Final Design

Playcard