Omni-animal: Nirvana of Phoenix

The animal I am creating is a PHOENIX. My inspiration came from the culture I grew up in, the Phoenix is a sacred animal, the king of all birds, and a symbol of good luck, representing both male and female aspects. The Phoenix's nirvana, rebirth in fire, symbolizes the courage and bravery to start again.

According to Greek mythology, the Phoenix is a gentle herbivore and nests on mountaintops. The incredible ability of the Phoenix is, naturally - the revival of fire - nirvana. When its body becomes old, it will periodically burn up and be reborn from the ashes like a newborn. The day the Phoenix is reborn in fire is called "Nirvana Day" (Burning Day). Upon being reborn in the fire, its eyes will become dull, its feathers will shed, and it will make a stunning sound. It is then reduced to a cloud of ashes in flames but will soon be reborn and, after a few days, will be able to grow back to its original size again. The truth is that for the Phoenix to return from the ashes, it must go through the most vulnerable phase.

Inspirations
Design & Hand-drawing on Inkspace
Final prototype

I added flames  to the base to symbolize the burning fire.

Reflection Card:
The biggest takeaway I have from this assignment, besides the lovable firework smell comes from the laser cutter and knowledge and skills of how to use the machine. My realization is that although having a good idea and illustrating it or visualizing it is extremely important. The importance of learning while doing is even greater!
Take my experience, for instance, I had drawn many drafts on Inkscape before going to the lab, but it wasn’t until I actually learned how to use the laser cutter that I realized that many of the ideas I had drafted were hard to implement in the real world, which I hadn’t anticipated.
In other words, conceptualization and idea generation should be complemented by a hands-on process, and one cannot exist without the other. Conceiving an idea a hundred times on the computer or in your head is not the same as learning how the machine works, using it and cutting stuff out, and then assessing where it needs improvement.
