Original code:
I went through a few different coding iterations, trying out different ideas in an html format using a shader and htlm. Ultimately, I moved away from this because although I could create the html and add text, I couldn't get the p5.js codes for shaders to run properly after 4 days.  I decided finally on this project:
My comments can be found here and below: This code drew me in because of its use of sine. I've always felt called to the natural waves of sine curves, and in this case, it felt connected to water and breathing, which are both very calming for me, so it felt appropriate to remix.  I started off using more complex codes from open source libraries, and was frustrated trying to figure out what they were saying. This process reminded me to be gentle and understanding towards myself as I'm experimenting in unfamiliar academic territories. Instead of being frustrated at what I did not know, I moved into simpler codes and practiced translating what I did know and understanding! Although many of my translations didn't "translate" into my final project, they were crucial steps in the beginning/middle to my exploration, applying, learning, and reflecting,

Remix code:
https://youtu.be/EKHuIGBPofs
At first, I was browsing aimlessly looking for ideas and just trying to understand what different codes were saying. As I was getting stressed with the process, I began breathing deeply to self-regulate. This practice sparked my interest in creating a visual that could encourage pausing, and taking a few deeper breaths. I like this code because it had a movement element that I felt could convey similar movements to breathing. I  made it slower, added text, and changed the background colors to convey calmness, centeredness, and tranquility. When completing my remix, I tried adding pictures, gifs, appearing/disappearing text, shaders, and rotating circles, but it all felt too complicated for the message I was trying to convey.
At first, I struggled to find a way to have it say both breathing in and out, at the appropriate times. I determined the best way was to sync the text with the rectangles. Breathing in and out rely on each other, and so it felt right to keep both on the screen. I just made it so the "breathe in" would disappear when the "breathe out" was upright to emphasize it.

Reflection Card: I went through 7 iterations using different code blocks, although the most surprising knowledge came from working with htlms. I knew htlms were websites, and I knew they were coded, and I knew javascript existed, but I did not know how they all fit together. At first, I was really confused trying to run my code in p5js because I wanted it to be a website. I used online resources to learn that I needed another application (I used Brackets) and html starter code and then it would make a website. For awhile, it wouldn't run, and I eventually realized it was because I was clicking "save" and it did not automatically save as a .html. This missing piece was crucial for my understanding. I thought my error was having to do with the local drive, so I read a lot about that, but in reality it was much more simple. I kept wanting to get fancier, more complex, but this project reminded me the simple joys in mastering the building blocks of a new skill: the basics that are necessary for you to build more complicated structures in the future.

