Tinkering  Part 1 - ideas
My first idea was to design a Brazilian animal from my region called Cerrado. The animals that came to mind were Tamanduá Bandeira (anteater), Arara (macaw), or Tucano (toucan). I tried sketching their bodies, but their mouth/beak was a problem. I couldn't figure out how to make a 3d format that would have balance with such a prominent long mouth/beak.

As I couldn't even start drawing something, the animals only came to mind as 2D lateral contour drawings. So, I looked around my house for objects that could help me understand an animal's body movement, such as a wing or an opening/closing mouth. Coincidentally, I found the "donkey wood animal" that belonged to my grandfather. It was amazing! I was so familiar with this toy that it helped me understand the functions/movements the animal could do. Additionally, the donkey was already in a 3d format, allowing me to play with it and wonder how I could design it in a 2D format so that assembling the parts would become a 3D animal.

To maintain the articulated member's function, I used this horses images as inspiration, and I decided to design a puppet (an upside-down version of the original)

Finally, I decided to go to Inkscape and start my design. What a frustration! Even though I did its training exercise in Lab class, once I was by myself, at my house, trying a new document, I couldn't figure out how to draw a line that showed up. (later, I discovered that the line was in blank function). The solution was to use a pencil and paper and draw my onmi-animal body parts. It was a great idea. The other day, I showed my draft to Akio, who patiently explained the tools to me again.

Tinkering  Part 2 - the design

I wanted to learn to use Inkscape and explore my drawing ability in a digital setting. Because I was using my computer without a mouse to manipulate the platform tools and wanted the drawing to be as proportionally as possible, I first used geometric squared forms to create the body (Image 1). Then, I used circles to make the domed parts (Images 2 and 3). All this process happened at the Lab and watching my peer's designs helped me on my own. For example, Eury shared her accordion-shaped cut design to build a flexible leg (Image 5). Another difficulty was understanding how I would connect the animal's parts. So, again, I resort to a physical prototype to help me emulate how the connections would happen (Image 4). At the end of the day, I was tired and proud of my achievement. I spend a couple of days working on the design to get the final project ready to print (Image 5).

Laser Cut and Final Design

I was anxious to see my design gain life. But, oh, it was hard! First, I should have paid more attention to the width of the lines, but this was something simple to fix. Another problem was the "drawing shadows." Because I used the rubber function to erase the lines or shapes I wasn't going to use, the first print considered these "shadows" and cut them. I wanted to give up. I couldn't fix my drawing anymore. Second, the machine was not working, so we used the "new" laser cut. Seeing my draw on the wood on the previous digitally printed page was great, but it didn't work. The laser did not cut through the wood, making it impossible to disattach the animal body parts without ruining them.

The "old" laser cut was fixed, and it printed perfectly. I was amazed by my accomplishment. It was so beautiful and close to what I imagined it. However, once I tried to connect the parts, I realized that the fitting parts were too wide and the legs could pass through them. So, I thought about fixing the lengths of the connection and printing it again. But first, I decided to try to work with my error. What a wise decision! This mistake allowed my animal to be articulated. If the connections fit, the animal's legs, head, and tail would be motionless. I spent some time tinkering about connecting the neck with the head and making it swing, but I couldn't figure out how to simulate a lever movement. I demonstrated to Megan what I wanted to do, and she suggested a spring, and finally, I finished my donkey.

Hello! I am the articulated donkey. I am the puppet version of Inara's grandfather's donkey toy. I live in Harlem. I love Guava paste (goiabada), tapioca and couscuz. To reproduce my species, press CRTL+P. Please, avoid water around me. It is not appropriate for my MDF material. Whenever I can, I listen to Luiz Gonzaga and dance around.
